There is no reason to believe that there is one law for families and another for nations.
When I despair, I remember that all through history the way of truth and love has always won.
There have been tyrants and murderers and for a time they seem invincible, but in the end, they
always fall - think of it, always.
An eye for an eye makes the whole world blind.
Retaliation is counter-poison and poison breeds more poison. The nectar of Love alone can
destroy the poison of hate.
I see neither bravery nor sacrifice in destroying life or property, for offense or defense.
Peace will not come out of a clash of arms, but out of justice lived, and done, by unarmed nations
in the face of odds."Tit for tat" is the law of the brute of unregenerate man.
To answer brutality with brutality is to admit one's moral and intellectual bankruptcy.
It is easy enough to be friendly to one's friends. But to be friends to the one who regards himself
as your enemy is the quintessence of true religion. The other is mere business.
Hatred can be overcome only by love.
Whenever you are confronted with an opponent, conquer him with love.
Whenever you have truth it must be given with love, or the message and the messenger will be 
rejected.
Civil disobedience becomes a sacred duty when the state becomes lawless or corrupt.
Noncooperation with evil is as much a duty as cooperation with good.
Democracy and violence can ill go together.
Evolution of democracy is not possible if we are not prepared to hear the other side.
In true democracy every man and woman is taught to think for himself or herself.
Democracy is not a state in which people act like sheep.
The spirit of democracy cannot be established in the midst of terrorism, whether governmental or
popular.
Nonviolence is the first article of my faith, it is also the last article of my creed.
For the nonviolent person, the whole world is one family. He will thus fear none, nor will others
fear him.
Nonviolence is not a weapon of the weak. It is a weapon of the strongest and bravest.
The force generated by nonviolence is infinitely greater than the force of all the arms created by
man's ingenuity.
Truth and nonviolence demand that no human being may debar himself from serving any other
human being, no matter how sinful he may be.
Moral results can only be produced by moral restraints.
My patriotism is not an exclusive thing. It is all embracing and I should reject that patriotism
which sought to mount the distress, or exploitation, of other nationalities.
Hatred is not essential for nationalism. Race-hatred will kill the real national spirit.
Exploitation and domination of one nation over another can have no place in a world striving to
put an end to all war.
The earth provides enough to satisfy every man's needs, but not every man's greed.
Poverty is the worst form of violence.
A "No" uttered from deepest conviction is better and greater than a "Yes" merely uttered to 
please, or what is worse, to avoid trouble.
Blaming the wolf would not help the sheep much. The sheep must learn not to fall into the
clutches of the wolf.
Practice is the best speech and the best propaganda.
The only tyrant I accept in this world is the still voice within.
There are times when you have to obey a call which is the highest of all, i.e. - the voice of
conscience, even though such obedience may cost many a bitter tear, and even more a separation
from friends, from family, from the state to which you may belong, from all which you have held
as dear as life itself. For this obedience is the law of our being.
What you do is of little significance, but it is very important that you do it.
We must become the change we want to see in the world.
The only devils in the world are those running around in our own hearts - that is where the battle
should be fought.
Performance of one's duties should be independent of public opinion.
My greatest weapon is mute prayer. 